Mecanum Drive Tutorial Improvements (#133)
Coppersource/gm0: source/docs/software/mecanum-drive.rst

Mecanum Physics
---------------

> The :term:`mecanum drive <Mecanum Wheel>` is a very popular drive train in FTC. The mecanum drive enables holonomic movement. This means that the drivetrain is able move in all directions. Forward, backward, side to side, translating while rotating, etc. `Here is a neat video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pP8ajNMx84k>`_ demonstrating such movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:term:`Mecanum drive <Mecanum Wheel>` is a very popular drive train in FTC. Mecanum drive enables holonomic movement. This means that the drivetrain is able move in any direction while rotating: forwards, backwards, side to side, translating while rotating, etc. `Here is a neat video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pP8ajNMx84k>`_ demonstrating such movement.
```

The mecanum drive sounds like it refers to a specific drivetrain.

Holonomic drive is not simply being able to translate in any direction, it's translating in any direction with heading being independent.

:term:`Mecanum wheels <Mecanum Wheel>` have rollers at a 45° angle to the rest of the wheel. Since these are in contact with the ground instead of something solid like in a :term:`traction wheel <Traction wheel>`, instead of the wheel creating a force parallel to the orientation of the wheel, it creates one 45° from parallel. Depending on how the wheels are driven, X or Y components of the force vectors can cancel which allows movement in any direction.

.. image:: images/mecanum-drive/mecanum-worms-eye-view.png
   :alt: Force diagram of a single mecanum wheel

Using Vectoring to Create Omnidirectional Movement
--------------------------------------------------

> A standard mecanum drive configuration possesses 4 mecanum wheels oriented in an "X" shape. This means that the rollers are angled towards the center when looking at it from above. This configuration allows one to add up the force vectors generated by the offset rollers and derive movement in any direction. It is important to note that because of friction, perfect movement isn’t possible in every direction, so a :term:`mecanum drivetrain <Mecanum Wheel>` will be able to drive slightly faster forwards/backwards than any other directions. Combing translation and rotation will also result in slower movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A standard mecanum drive configuration possesses 4 mecanum wheels oriented in an "X" shape. This means that the rollers are angled towards the center when looking at it from above. This configuration allows one to add up the force vectors generated by the offset rollers and derive movement in any direction. It is important to note that because of friction, perfect movement isn’t possible in every direction, so a :term:`mecanum drivetrain <Mecanum Wheel>` will be able to drive slightly faster forwards/backwards than any other directions. Combining translation and rotation will also result in slower movement.
```

.. image:: images/mecanum-drive/mecanum-drive-force-diagram.png
   :alt: Force diagram of a complete mecanum drive

> In the image above, vectors 1, 2, 3, and 4 are the force vectors created by the :term:`mecanum wheels <Mecanum Wheel>` when the chassis is instructed to drive towards the top of the image. All motors are driving forward. The blue and red lines are their X and Y components, respectively. Here are a few examples of how the wheels must be driven to achieve different movements (It is not recommended to hard code these in; there is a much better mathematical way to program mecanum that allows for true omnidirectional movement and is much cleaner):
> 
> .. image:: images/mecanum-drive/mecanum-drive-directions.png
>    :alt: Examples of ways to move the wheels on mecanum drive to move the robot in different directions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the image above, vectors 1, 2, 3, and 4 are the force vectors created by the :term:`mecanum wheels <Mecanum Wheel>` when the chassis is instructed to drive towards the top of the image. All motors are driving forward. The blue and red lines are their X and Y components, respectively. Here are a few examples of how the wheels must be driven to achieve different movements:

.. image:: images/mecanum-drive/mecanum-drive-directions.png
   :alt: Examples of ways to move the wheels on mecanum drive to move the robot in different directions

.. attention:: It is strongly advised to not hardcode these movements in; there is a much better way described below that allows for true holonomic movement and is much more elegant.
```

   frontRightMotor.setPower(y - x - rx);
   backRightMotor.setPower(y + x - rx);

> .. note:: It's important to note that motors in FTC spin counterclockwise when given positive power by default (except for Neverest motors). In this case, you need to reverse the direction of the right drive motors so that they spin toward the same direction as the left drive motors when supplied with a positive power. This can be done simply by either reversing the direction with either :code:`DcMotor.setDirection(DcMotor.Direction.REVERSE)` or multiplying the right side powers by a negative number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important:: Motors in FTC spin counterclockwise when given positive power by default (except for NeveRest motors). In this case, you need to reverse the direction of the right drive motors so that they spin toward the same direction as the left drive motors when supplied with a positive power (for a drivetrain using NeveRests, reverse the right side instead). This can be done with :code:`DcMotor.setDirection(DcMotor.Direction.REVERSE)`.
```

      frontRightPower /= max;
      backRightPower /= max;
   }

Make sure to set the powers on your motor and update this every loop in an opmode!

Final Sample Code
-----------------

::

   package org.firstinspires.ftc.teamcode;

>    import com.qualcomm.robotcore.eventloop.opmode.LinearOpMode;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   import com.qualcomm.robotcore.eventloop.opmode.LinearOpMode;
   import com.qualcomm.robotcore.eventloop.opmode.TeleOp;
```

   import com.qualcomm.robotcore.hardware.DcMotor;
   import com.qualcomm.robotcore.hardware.DcMotorSimple;

>    public class MecanumTeleop extends LinearOpMode {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   @TeleOp
   public class MecanumTeleOp extends LinearOpMode {
```
